# Week10 Lab Exercise - Gone Phishin'

![Image](http://i.imgur.com/dFoYLJH.png)

In this lab, we'll take a hands-on look at phishing, which can involve a number
of different approaches, and a growing set of tools is available to the
aspiring social engineer to assist with this. It's important to remember,
though, that phishing is a subset of SE in general, and that many SE techniques
such as [pretexting](http://searchcio.techtarget.com/definition/pretexting) or
[waterholing](http://searchsecurity.techtarget.com/definition/watering-hole-attack)
are beyond the scope of what we can usefully
simulate or even demonstrate, either because they are highly dependent upon
knowledge about the target or because they involve manipulating a human
directly (or both). Because the targets and systems involved in SE are usually
in a constant state of change, what works in one situation will often not work
in others, or work reliably at all, and SE often involves at least a certain
amount of luck. Many of the effective and high-value examples of SE are unique
to their circumstances and thus hard to generalize.

And while we can cover some of the tools and techniques, one additional problem
will become clear over the course of the lab: this stuff doesn't always work,
and the well-understood variations typically won't work against modern
infrastructure. In previous weeks we've sidestepped this by attacking
intentionally vulnerable targets; hacking the latest version of WordPress is a
lot harder than hacking one that's three years old. In this lab, we'll come up
against modern, updated infrastructure and see first hand how some of these
techniques fall short. But even that is instructive: security is many ways an
arms race, and today's tools and tech will often not work tomorrow. Part of
being a successful security researcher or hacker is adapting to this state of
affairs. We take the time to understand these known, sometimes obsolete
techniques so we can move closer to the frontier, where the war is being
fought.
